Relieving Stress
on, or even if you are on either side, the stress levels in our nation are
soaring. It may be politics, or it could be financial, or relationship issues,
children (grown or little), you name it we are all feeling tense. How do you
take care of yourself when you feel like you are being hit from all angles?
Stress is actually an engineering term. Originally it was used to describe
how machines or parts handled pressure, i.e. how much pressure could an
object take before it broke? In our current world we hope our stress is not
enough to cause us to break.
Unfortunately, many people in our culture use substances to deal with their
stress. Addiction is an illness that is the sign of our times. Whether it’s
alcohol or opiates or any other addictive substance, people often feel like
they just can’t handle the pressures around them and they use something
to escape the struggle. The problem, of course, is that the struggle doesn’t
go away, it’s still there when the substance wears off. Perhaps you escape
in the TV. Or perhaps you sleep more than you need to. But as the
struggles not only don’t go away, they become bigger the more they are
ignored.
Here are some suggestions to help relieve stress.
Good Nutrition: Healthy foods help to restore our energy levels. Many
times the stress seems overwhelming because we feel like we don’t have
enough energy to deal with our issues. Your diet should include protein,
healthy starch, and lots of fresh fruits and vegetables. If you were raised on
processed or fast food, you may not know how to prepare fresh healthy
food. Don’t despair, there are lots of recipes online, and tutorials as well. 
If you can read, you can cook. Go into any bookstore or department stores
that sell books and you can find shelves of cookbooks. You don’t have to
become a vegan or vegetarian to eat healthfully. If money is an issue for
healthy eating, shop sales, see what the food pantries have and buy
cookbooks from thrift stores.
Exercise: Life is busy. You may work full time, and have small children to
deal with and so on. The easiest way to get some exercise is to simply walk.
You don’t have to run a marathon, or join an expensive gym, you can simply
plan 30 minutes out of your day to walk around your neighborhood. The
blood will pump, you’ll breathe deeper and both those things can greatly
reduce stress.
Acupuncture: Not everyone can afford to go to an acupuncturist, but
acupuncture makes all the energy (Qi) flow to every organ in your body, and
releases any toxicity caused by worrying. A good alternative to going to an
acupuncture office is to find Community Acupuncture options. This is where
a small group of people get treated at the same time in recliner chairs,
without undressing. It is usually drop in, no appointment necessary and is
often much less expensive than going to an office. It’s limited in what it can
do, but it definitely can relieve stress.
Massage: Again, this may be out of one’s price range but look for coupons
and deals. Massage helps the lymph fluid, blood and other substances
move instead of being stuck, which often happens when stressed. It feels
good and is very relaxing.
Talk Therapy: Sometimes talking about issues helps to relieve stress, it
certainly helps to know you are not alone. A listening ear is so valuable, and
a therapist is trained to know when you are just fooling yourself, or when
you have an issue that needs addressing. Many insurances cover therapy. It
can be difficult up here in the mountains to find therapists, but they are
around.
Community: Perhaps a church family can be the support you need,
perhaps a club or group with shared interests, like a mom’s group or a book
group. Dealing with your problems all by yourself can make them look
insurmountable, but if you talk with someone who is dealing with the same
or similar issues, it can take a little pressure off your shoulders.
Whatever you do, don’t give up. These are difficult times, and you are not
alone. When you feel good, reach out to others who may be struggling, and
when you are struggling, reach out to those who may be in a better place
than you at the moment. If you really need to rest, rest. There’s nothing
wrong with resting. Keep handy hotline numbers, if you are a recovered
addict and feel like using, call someone! If you feel like ending it all, call
someone! If you are lonely, call someone! Help is available.
Deanna Stennett, L.Ac., MA, Nationally Certified NCCAOM, is a Georgia
Licensed Acupuncturist with 33 years of experience. She has offices in
Ellijay at the Natural Wellness Center, and Blairsville at Olive Tree Holistic
Wellness Center. Her website is: www.acupunctureinnorthgeorgia.com, she
can be reached through email: spiritpoint4u@gmail.com or phone: 410-961-
9033. Deanna is a former adjunct professor from Maryland University of
Integrative Health in Laurel, Maryland where she worked for 20 years. She
is the author of Poetry of the Body: Stories About Acupuncture Points,
which she wrote for the lay person. Her book is available on Amazon, or
directly from her publisher iUniverse.com.
